COMPLICATIONS

Beyond your abilities and features, your hero might have something else that makes them … unusual. Perhaps an earth elemental lives in your body. Maybe your eldritch blade devastates enemies but feeds on your own vitality.

A complication is an optional feature you can take to enrich your hero’s backstory, with any complication providing you both a positive benefit and a negative drawback. Because complications are optional, check with your Director before taking one.

While you may get to determine your hero’s complication, it’s your Director’s right to determine how your complication affects the story, and you should be okay with that. Maybe you get a chance to remove your complication’s drawback or it plays a big part of the campaign’s narrative, or it may be you always have the complication’s drawback looming over you, forcing you into hard decisions! Either option leads to great narratives, so embrace the control you give to the Director when you take a complication. The story will be richer for it!

BENEFIT AND DRAWBACK

Your complication gives your hero both a benefit and a drawback. Some of these benefits and drawbacks are mechanical, while others are narrative. The benefit and drawback of a complication makes your connection to the game deeper and more interesting, and provides hooks to let the Director better draw your hero into the campaign’s story.

Not all complication benefits and drawbacks are created equal, but each benefit is balanced by its drawback. If you have a powerful positive side to your complication, be prepared to have an equally influential bit of negative backstory as well.

MODIFYING THE STORY

You can modify the narrative of a complication to better fit with your vision of your character’s backstory—or change it entirely. For instance, if you choose Devil Deal as a complication, you can have your hero instead make that deal with an archfey or an undead general!

Many of the details of each complication are purposefully left vague, so that you can connect it to the rest of your backstory. If your complication took place during “an attack” or “an accident,” you decide the specific details of who or what attacked you, or what type of accident befell you.

DETERMINE COMPLICATION

You can choose your character’s complication, or you can roll on the Complications table.

COMPLICATIONS

d100

Complication

1

Advanced Studies

2

Animal Form

3

Amnesia

4

Artifact Bonded

5

Antihero

6

Bereaved

7

Betrothed

8

Careful Curse

9

Chaos Touched

10

Chosen One

11

Consuming Interest

12

Corrupted Mentor

13

Coward

14

Crash Landed

15

Cult Victim

16

Curse of Immortality

17

Curse of Misfortune

18

Curse of Poverty

19

Cursed Weapon

20

Disgraced

21

Dragon Dreams

22

Elemental Inside

23

Evanesceria

24

Exile

25

Fallen Immortal

26

Famous Relative

27

Feytouched

28

Fiery Ideal

29

Fire and Chaos

30

Following in the Footsteps

31

Forbidden Romance

32

Frostheart

33

Getting Too Old for This

34

Gnoll-Bit

35

Greening

36

Grifter

37

Grounded

38

Guilty Conscience

39

Hawk Rider

40

Hears Voices

41

Host Body

42

Hunted

43

Hunter

44

Indebted

45

Infernal Contract

46

Infernal Contract … But, Like, Bad

47

Ivory Tower

48

Lifebonded

49

Lightning Soul

50

Loner

51

Lost in Time

52

Lost Your Head

53

Lucky

54

Master Chef

55

Meddling Butler

56

Medium

57

Medusa Blood

58

Misunderstood

59

Mundane

60

Outlaw

61

Pirate

62

Preacher

63

Primordial Sickness

64

Promising Apprentice

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

1

65

Psychic Eruption

66

Punishment Curse

67

Raised by Beasts

68

Refugee

69

Rival

70

Rogue Talent

71

Runaway

72

Searching for a Cure

73

Secret Identity

74

Secret Twin

75

Self Taught

76

Sewer Folk

77

Shadow Born

78

Shared Spirit

79

Shattered Legacy

80

Shipwrecked

81

Sibling’s Shield

82

Silent Sentinel

83

Slight Case of Lycanthropy

84

Stolen Face

85

Stone Cursed

86

Strange Inheritance

87

Stripped of Rank

88

Thrill Seeker

89

Vampire Sire

90

Voiceless Prisoner

91

Vow of Honesty

92

Vow of Duty

93

Waking Dreams

94

War Dog

95

War of Assassins

96

Ward

97

Waterborn

98

Wodewalker

99

Wrathful Spirit

100

Wrongly Imprisoned

ADVANCED STUDIES

You somehow obtained the notebook of a brilliant but eccentric member of your class. It should help you unlock powerful new abilities—if you can ever figure out what it means.

Benefit and Drawback: As a respite activity, you can study the notebook. Make a test using your highest characteristic. On an 11 or lower, you summon a hostile demon of your level or lower who attacks you at the end of the respite. The demon gets to act first in the combat, no matter any other creature’s traits or abilities. On a 16 or less, you learn nothing and your time is wasted. On a 17+, you learn a bonus heroic ability from your class that you qualify for. You only know the ability until you finish a respite.

ANIMAL FORM

Due to a magical accident, your being has fused with a small, harmless animal. You turn into this animal when it’s convenient—and sometimes when it’s inconvenient as well.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

Benefit: At the start of your turn, while you are conscious you can take the form of a specific 1T animal. Apart from your size, you keep your other statistics. Based on the animal you can turn into, your movement gains either the Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim keyword. Instead of gaining one of these keywords, your speed can increase by 2. Unless you use this benefit again, you regain your true form at the start of your next turn. While in animal form, you can’t talk or use actions, and the only maneuvers you can take are Escape Grab, Hide, and Stand Up.

Drawback: At the start of your turn while you are winded, the Director can spend 1 Malice to force you to take your animal form. Once the Director has done so, they can’t do so again until you have finished a respite.

AMNESIA

You have no memory of your past before the … incident. Hopefully you’ll regain your memory soon and find out what the incident was. In the meantime, you need friends, so you’re not alone when your past catches up to you.

Benefit: You have a supernatural possession—a 1st echelon trinket. It might have some connection with your former life.

Drawback: You have a bane on tests made to recall lore.

ARTIFACT BONDED

A powerful artifact has bonded to you. You might be destined to wield the artifact or to destroy it. You’re not powerful enough to use it at the moment, although you may one day be. For now, the item has no effect beyond getting you in trouble.

Benefit: Choose an artifact (see Treasures). The first time in an encounter that you are reduced to 0 Stamina against your will, the artifact appears on your person and then disappears at the end of your next turn.

Drawback: When the artifact disappears from your grasp, you lose a Recovery. If you have no Recoveries remaining, you take 1d10 damage instead, which can’t be reduced in any way.

ANTIHERO

You used to be a villain. You’re (mostly) reformed now, but in desperate moments, you sometimes draw on the rage and hatred that fueled your old life. In these moments, even your friends aren’t sure whose side you’re on. They don’t need to worry, though. Once you leave evil behind, you can’t go back. You’ve made too many enemies on the other side.

Benefit: You have three Antihero Tokens. Whenever you use an ability or effect that costs a heroic resource, you can spend an Antihero Token to in place of one heroic resource. While you have fewer than three antihero tokens and you would earn a hero token for the group through your deeds, you instead regain one antihero token.

Drawback: While you have fewer than three antihero tokens, you exude a villainous aspect. You and each ally within 5 squares of you takes a bane on all tests made to interact with other creatures.

2

BEREAVED

The most important person to you—perhaps a family member, mentor, or lover—was killed. The only thing that keeps you going is the faint connection you have with this person’s spirit, and the hope that one day you can tie up their unfinished business and let them rest.

Benefit: When you don’t know what to do, you can appeal to your loved one’s spirit for help. You spend a hero token to let the Director determine your next combat or out-ofcombat action. The Director chooses the best course of action they can think of for you, even if it relies on information you don’t have. If the Director can’t think of a particularly good course of action for you to take, you don’t expend the hero token.

Drawback: You gain corruption weakness 5.

BETROTHED

Your parents made a deal, and as part of that deal, you’re supposed to marry someone—or something—you didn’t choose. But no one is going to tell you what to do! They’ll be sorry when you run away and become a mighty adventurer.

Benefit: You escaped with a dowry present: a 1st echelon trinket of your choice.

Drawback: People who learn of you running out on your commitment think less of you and spread nasty rumors about you. Your Renown can’t ever be more than your level – 1.

CAREFUL CURSE

When you were young, you did something reckless and unthinking that endangered a hag or cost them something dear. The hag cursed you, causing you to take your time and be always cautious and thorough, even to your own detriment. If you can’t shake this curse, it could be your downfall or the very thing that saves you.

Benefit: Until you’ve taken your turn in a round, strikes against you take a bane.

Drawback: Your speed is reduced by 1.

CHAOS TOUCHED

You came into contact with a mote of pure chaos energy or were subjected to a spell or object that fused chaos into your very being. Now you can sprout and retract limbs in a way that can horrify unprepared onlookers.

Benefit: You gain an edge on power rolls that are part of the Grab, Escape a Grab, or Knockback maneuver. Additionally, you can hold an extra item even when your hands are full.

Drawback: While dying, you grow and retract uncoordinated limbs, making all power rolls with a bane.

CHOSEN ONE

Maybe the stars marked you out at your birth, or maybe your name appears in an ancient prophecy. In any case, a

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

sinister cult has decided that you’re very important to their plan—though you don’t particularly like the fate they have in mind for you.

Benefit: You have three Destiny Points. You can spend a Destiny Point in place of a heroic resource of your class. Each time you gain a Victory, you regain one Destiny Point.

Drawback: When you spend a Destiny Point, you take 1d10 psychic damage and the cult that seeks you becomes aware of your location.

CONSUMING INTEREST

Ever since you were a kid, you’ve been obsessed with a certain topic. During your travels, you spend your free time gleaning all the information you can on it. You might not be the world’s leading expert quite yet, but people should certainly trust your opinion on the topic.

Benefit: You gain a skill from the lore skill group. You can use the following project up to three times for that skill. Each time you use the project, you must use a different project source.

STUDY LORE

Item Prerequisite: None

Project Source: A significant source of information on the topic, such as a major library or a world-renowned sage

Project Roll Characteristic: Reason

Project Goal: 120 the first time, 150 the second time, 180 the third time

Your knowledge of your chosen field increases. When you finish this project, the bonus to tests provided by your skill increases from +2 to +3, +3 to +4, or +4 to +5.

Drawback: You can’t imagine ever being wrong on the subject. When you make a test to recall lore using your chosen skill, the Director makes the test in secret. Instead of informing you whether you’re right or wrong, they provide you with correct information if you succeeded or false information if you failed.

CORRUPTED MENTOR

Your mentor taught you everything, and you trusted them implicitly—until they went rogue, betraying you or your organization. Their current whereabouts and activities are unknown, although there are disturbing rumors—and you, as their former pupil, are under suspicion as well.

Benefit: Your mentor taught you the Corrupt Spirit maneuver, which, in retrospect, should have aroused your suspicion.

CORRUPT SPIRIT

Keywords: Magic Distance: Self

Type: Maneuver Target: Self

Effect: Until the end of your turn, when you use a heroic ability against a single target, you can weaken the target’s life force, dealing extra corruption damage equal to your highest characteristic score.

Drawback: You have holy weakness 1. Each time you Corrupt Spirit, your holy weakness increases by 1, to a

3

maximum of your Recovery value. This weakness is reset to 1 after you take holy damage.

COWARD

Some call you a coward, just because you shriek and run when you encounter danger. Sure, you might not have the natural bravado of less-imaginative people, and sure, you’re always imagining the many horrible ways you could die, but you’re used to fear. When you run in terror, you run towards the enemy.

Benefit: You can move toward the source of your fear while you are frightened.

Drawback: When you make a saving throw to end the frightened condition, you roll 2d10 and take the lowest result.

CRASH LANDED

You used to flit around the stars in your own ship, but after an ugly run-in with a pirate (or a pirate hunter), you’re marooned on this backwater world. You’re prepared to carve out a life here—at least until you can hitch a ride.

Benefit: You gain the Timescape skill. Additionally, you have a power pack that you can activate or deactivate as a maneuver. When you activate the power pack, choose an energy type from cold, fire, lightning, or sonic. The damage you deal with abilities becomes that damage type until you deactivate the power pack.

Drawback: You have a bane on tests made to know about anything related to the world where you crash landed.

CULT VICTIM

Cultists captured you while raiding your home, then began an unholy ritual to turn your body into an undead spirit. The ritual failed, but your body became infused with corrupted magic, turning you partially incorporeal.

Benefit: Once per turn, you can move through a solid mundane object no more than 1 square thick. If you end your turn inside the object, you take 5 damage and are shunted out into the space where you entered the object.

Drawback: Your body is more susceptible to negative energy. You have corruption weakness 5.

CURSE OF IMMORTALITY

As long as you can remember, you’ve never gotten olderyou’ve just adventured through one age after another. Still, your memory of past events, even those you were involved with, is a little hazy—apparently your memory is not as long-lived as you are.

Benefit: You don’t age. Also, when your Stamina equals the negative of your winded value, you enter a state of suspended animation indistinguishable from death. If your body is not destroyed while in this state, after 12 hours you regain consciousness and regain Stamina equal to your recovery value.

Drawback: You have a bane on tests made to recall lore.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

CURSE OF MISFORTUNE

You should have never pissed off that mage! Maybe they deserved your ire, or maybe you were just a bully, but whatever the case, the wizard cursed you before skipping town. Now, in moments of pressure that require great skill, you have a tendency to choke, falling and flailing in such a dramatic fashion that you take everyone with you.

Benefit and Drawback: When you make a test in combat and get a consequence, you and every ally within 1 falls prone, causing you to barely miss any further consequence.

CURSE OF POVERTY

A soothsayer once told you you’d never be rich, but you’d survive the impossible—but you’re determined to prove ‘em wrong. You’ll get rich or die trying!

Benefit and Drawback: When you take a respite while your personal Wealth is greater than 1, some improbable event occurs that causes most of your money to vanish. Your Wealth is reduced to 1. For each Wealth that you lose, your number of Recoveries increases by 1 until you take a respite with fewer Recoveries than your maximum.

CURSED WEAPON

When you were young, you were given, or you found, a magic weapon. Since then, it’s stayed by your side, possibly even inspiring you to lead the life of a hero—but the weapon is cursed.

Benefit: You gain a leveled weapon of your choice. Drawback: You have damage weakness 2.

DISGRACED

You’re a disgraced member of a powerful family or guild. You’ve been turned out of the ancestral home, and your relatives won’t give you the time of day, much less a helping hand, until you clear your name or clean up your act.

Benefit: You gain 1 Renown, and you learn a skill of your choice from the interpersonal or intrigue skill group. Drawback: Anyone who has heard of you and is influenced by your Renown treats you as infamous. When you are part of a negotiation that ends with an NPC who has an influence of 2 or lower, that NPC makes a plan to hurt you personally and carries it out.

DRAGON DREAMS

You sometimes have strange dreams of infernos of flame … gleaming piles of treasure … spreading your wings and taking flight. You haven’t told anyone about the dreams, except for your one strange relative who seems to know more than they’re letting on.

Benefit: Choose two ancestry points worth of dragon knight traits. Whenever you have at least 5 Victories, you gain those traits.

Drawback: When you are reduced to 0 Stamina, you explode with heat and fire. You and each creature within 5 4

squares of you takes fire damage equal to twice your level. You can’t reduce this damage for yourself in any way.

ELEMENTAL INSIDE

When an evil mage threatened someone you loved, you blocked your foe’s summoning of an elemental creature by absorbing their magic with your body. You are now infused with the power of that elemental—and they’re not happy about it.

Benefit: Your Stamina increases by 3 at 1st level, then increases by an additional 3 at 4th, 7th, and 10th levels.

Drawback: When you are dying, your possessing elemental takes control of your body. The elemental yearns for destruction, causing you to attack the closest creature they notice without regard for your desires or your body’s safety. The Director or you can control the hero, but whoever does must do their best to kill any creature they notice until you are no longer dying.

EVANESCERIA

You have contracted a rare magical disease called evanesceria. There are times when you’re not quite yourself—or anyone else either. You simply … vanish. You return later with no memory of your absence.

Benefit: You can sometimes absent yourself from unpleasant situations. At the start of a combat round you can attempt to absent yourself by rolling a d10. On a result of 6 or higher, you disappear from reality, reappearing in the space you left, or the closest unoccupied space of your choice if it’s occupied, when you take your turn. After you absent yourself, you can’t attempt to absent again until you gain a Victory.

Drawback: When you start a respite activity, roll 2d10. If you roll a 1 on either die, you absent for the rest of the respite then reappear. You gain the benefits of taking a respite but don’t perform the respite activity.

EXILE

Whether you’re a convicted criminal, a noble stripped of their title, or just someone who made one too many enemies, you’ve been cast forth from your homeland, never to return—at least, until you’re strong enough to set things right.

Benefit: You learn an extant spoken language of your choice.

Drawback: If you are caught returning to your homeland, you’ll be put to death.

FALLEN IMMORTAL

You used to be an immortal creature, dispensing justice and doing the bidding of the gods. Now, as a punishment or perhaps as a reward, you have put aside your wings and become a mortal. Your remaining years will be short, but living aside your fellow mortals gives your life new meaning.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

Benefit: You gain the Religion skill. Additionally, when you deal untyped damage, you can deal holy damage instead.

Drawback: You will never fully gain a mortal’s comfort with untruth. When you make a test to deceive another creature, you do so with a bane.

FAMOUS RELATIVE

Sure, you’re a promising young hero in your own rightbut people always ask you about your famous relative. Will you equal or surpass your relative’s accomplishments, or will you always live in their shadow?

Benefit: You have a piece of magic jewelry, such as a signet ring. As a maneuver, you can use the item to summon your relative to your aid. Your relative does their best to help you out of the current perilous situation, and disappears after 1 hour or after the perilous situation is resolved. Once you summon your relative, you can’t do so again until you gain a level.

Your relative has the same statistics as you do except for Renown, doesn’t gain the benefit of any of your treasures, and makes all power rolls with an edge. Your relative starts with a Renown of 10.

Drawback: After you summon your relative, the next time you gain Renown your relative gains the Renown instead and you gain no Victories from any combat encounters or other Victory-earning challenges for which they were present.

FEYTOUCHED

Your birth was attended by faeries. A friendly fairy blessed you, granting you strength so that you could defend yourself. An unfriendly fairy also blessed you, granting you a life full of peril so that you could prove your strength.

Benefit and Drawback: At the start of a combat encounter, you can gain 1 additional heroic resource. If you do so, the Director gains 3 Malice.

FIERY IDEAL

A spirit beyond your comprehension chose you to be the guardian of a place, a cause, or another ideal. A flame burns in your soul, one that can burn your enemies—or yourself, if you fall short of your ideal.

Benefit: While you are fighting on behalf of your ideal, when you score a tier 3 success with a damage-dealing ability, you deal additional fire damage equal to your highest characteristic score.

Drawback: When you act against your ideal or fail to live up to the high standards associated with your ideal, you take 5 + your level fire damage. This damage can’t be decreased in any way.

FIRE AND CHAOS

A great monster who breathed fire burned your home to the ground. While everything around you was consumed, you somehow stood strong amid the inferno, your body adapting to ignore the effects of the flames.

5

Benefit: You have fire immunity 5. Drawback: You have cold weakness 5.

FOLLOWING IN THE FOOTSTEPS

Your personal idol was a mighty hero, and you have modeled yourself on their example. You’ve studied their legends, and someday you hope to learn their most famous battle technique.

Benefit: Choose a heroic ability for your class that requires a higher level than your current one. When you learn this ability, it costs 2 heroic resources less than usual (minimum 1).

Drawback: In your quest for advanced techniques, you have neglected basics. Choose a heroic ability that you already know. It costs 1 heroic resource more than usual.

FORBIDDEN ROMANCE

You are in love with someone, but tragic circumstances keep you apart—perhaps your lover is from a feuding family, betrothed to another, or has some other animosity toward you.

Benefit: You can secretly call on your betrothed for favors. They may be powerful, but they’re constrained—they can’t openly reveal their connection with you.

Drawback: When in trouble, your lover may call on you for help—and if your relationship is discovered, your lover’s family become dangerous enemies.

FROSTHEART

At the edge of the world, you were lost in a winter storm and presumed dead—but returned with frosty skin and pale eyes.

Benefit: You have cold immunity 5. When you would deal untyped damage with strike, you can instead deal cold damage.

Drawback: You have fire weakness 5.

GETTING TOO OLD FOR THIS

You used to be a renowned hero, but you’ve been living the last few years in blissful peace. Now you’re coming out of retirement for one last hurrah. Your fighting skills have atrophied to the point where you’re no stronger than a wet-behind-the-ears starting adventurer, but you still remember some of your old tricks.

Benefit: On your turn, choose a heroic ability that you would be able to learn if you were one level higher. Provided you meet the ability’s other prerequisites and you can spend the required heroic resources, you can use this ability. Once you use this benefit, you can’t do so again until you have gained 2 Victories.

Drawback: While you are winded, your speed is reduced by 2.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

GNOLL-BIT

As a child you survived a gnoll attack—but they left you with a toothy scar and the occasional fit of bloodlust.

Benefit: Whenever an ally within 5 squares of you is reduced to 0 Stamina, as a triggered action you can move up to your speed and make a free strike.

Drawback: If you start your turn next to at least one creature while dazed, you must use your action to make a melee free strike against an adjacent creature.

Special: You can’t take this complication if you can’t be dazed.

GREENING

A great tree in the middle of a forest called upon you to clear its roots of the ichor moss draining its life force. As you removed the moss, you felt as if you were being filled with green elemental energy. Sadly, the great tree withered before you could finish the job, leaving behind a golden sapling which you now carry with you.

Benefit: You have corruption resistance 5. Drawback: You have fire weakness 5.

GRIFTER

You used to be a con artist. Those days are pretty much behind you. Being a hero is an even better racket. After all, if you’re saving the world, who can be mad at you for stealing a couple of coins along the way?

Benefit: You gain a skill from the intrigue skill group. Drawback: When you meet an NPC for the first time, the Director can award the party a Hero Token. If they do so, the NPC was a victim of one of your previous cons and remembers you.

GROUNDED

As a child, when your settlement was in danger, you called out to the earth for aid. The earth answered with a shower of protecting earthen walls, and since then, you’ve felt its presence as a friend and protector.

Benefit: You gain the 1st-level Elementalist Specialization feature Manipulate Earth. If you also gain Manipulate Earth in another way, you can use the ability as a ranged ability with a distance of ranged 5.

Drawback: You attract lightning. When any creature within 2 squares of you takes lightning damage, you take 5 lightning damage, which ignores any lightning immunity you have.

GUILTY CONSCIENCE

The world is in trouble—and it’s partly your fault. Maybe you helped a villain rise to power or inadvertently released a demon from imprisonment. Now it’s your mission to repair the damage you caused.

Benefit: You’re determined to stay alive so you can set things right. When you are reduced to the negative of your

6

winded value, you can spend a Recovery as a free triggered action.

Drawback: Many people blame you for the evils you caused. They may be unfriendly or hostile to you—and you can see their point of view. You have a bane on tests made to interact with or strike those who accuse you of the sin you have committed.

HAWK RIDER

You travel with a giant hawk that you stole from the Hawklords. Perhaps you were once a Hawklord yourself, or perhaps you escaped their captivity. Traveling with a giant hawk comes with its share of inconveniences and dangers, but they’re a small price to pay for the sky.

Benefit: While outside, you can spend a minute to summon your giant hawk (see Humans monster entry in the Monsters book), which acts as your mount. You can dismiss the hawk as a free action. The hawk won’t go inside, and it won’t accept anyone but you as a rider. If the hawk takes damage or dies, you can restore it to full Stamina as a respite activity.

Drawback: People who know of your crime are afraid to interact with you, since they worry the Hawklords will come after them by association. You have a bane on tests made to influence anyone who knows of the Hawklords and who has seen you with your giant hawk. Such people might report you to the Hawklords, who can come looking for you.

HEARS VOICES

You occasionally hear a voice in your head, offering orders or advice. You don’t know who the voice is or why, but when you’ve followed the advice, it’s usually proved to be sound.

Benefit: The Director tells you when you hear the voice. The voice seems to be aware of your surroundings, and its advice is usually vague but helpful. Someday its motivations might be different from your own, but for now it seems keen on making sure that you survive.

Drawback: Eventually, the voice may reveal that it wants something from you—something you may or may not want to provide. If the voice is displeased with you, it can prevent you from resting during a respite, causing you to regain 2 fewer Recoveries than normal.

HOST BODY

“Do not be alarmed! We are not the humanoid we appear to be. We are an intelligent fungal collective, using this body as a host. No, we are doing nothing unsavory! This body was dead when we found it; we merely gave it another chance at life. We are friendly. Please put down those torches!”

Benefit: You are a fungus that inhabits a humanoid body. Your host body follows all the normal rules for a character and is considered to be alive. At any time while your host body is alive, or for 24 hours after it dies, as an action you can move to a dead humanoid within 10 squares of the body and use it as your new host body, provided the body belongs a playable ancestry. When you do so, your original

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

host body dies. Your new host body gains all your statistics except for those related to your former host body’s ancestry such as size and ancestry traits, which you instead gain from your new host body. When you inhabit a new host body, you start with 1 Stamina and can immediately spend a Recovery.

Drawback: You have fire weakness 5. Additionally, you have a bane on tests made to read humanoid creatures’ emotions and body language.

HUNTED

You’re one step ahead of a pursuer—perhaps a bounty hunter determined to bring you to justice, a revenant, or an assassin intent on your death. Someday, you’ll be strong enough to face your pursuer head to head, but for now you’re living your life on the run.

Benefit: You gain a skill from the intrigue skill group. Additionally, you when other creatures are pursuing you, you can take the lay low respite activity. When you use it, anyone pursuing you loses track of your party’s location and must start their search again.

Drawback: Each time you gain Renown, your pursuer learns your location. Unless you lay low or move to a new location, within a 1d10 days you’ll be visited by the pursuer’s minions, or, if you linger, the pursuer.

HUNTER

You’re hunting someone or something—perhaps a wanted criminal or someone who wronged you, or perhaps a dangerous monster or beast. You won’t rest until you meet your quarry face to face!

Benefit: Choose one skill from Alertness, Criminal Underworld, Eavesdrop, Interrogate, Rumors, Search, Track, or Society. You gain that skill, and you have an edge on tests made to find or learn clues about your quarry.

Drawback: You are so obsessed with finding your quarry that you have a bane on tests made to track other creatures.

INDEBTED

A deal went south, or you got involved with the wrong people, and now you owe a debt or a ransom—the kind that would bankrupt a minor noble. In order to pay it off, you’ll need to take some dangerous risks.

Benefit: You’re good with money—you’ve had to be. Whenever you would gain Wealth, you gain 1 more than what you’d normally earn.

Drawback: Your starting Wealth is -5. While your Wealth is less than 1, you can purchase items as if you had 1 Wealth, but you’re frequently visited by threatening creditors, and shopkeepers tend to lock their doors when they see you coming.

INFERNAL CONTRACT

You made a deal (perhaps unknowingly) with an archdevil that has tied you to that fiend’s service. When you first learned of this deal, you were taken to the Seven Cities of

7

Hell, where some of the timescape’s best minds taught you the ways of battle or magic. The archdevil allows you to use these gifts as you will … until they require a favor from you.

Benefit: Whenever you are present for a battle in which all the creatures on one side are not surprised, your side goes first on a result of 4 or greater on the d10 roll (see Determine Who Goes First in Combat Round).

Drawback: The archdevil occasionally asks you to defeat enemies on their behalf. If you refuse, your fiendish patron sends devils after you and those you care about.

INFERNAL CONTRACT … BUT, LIKE, BAD

You made a deal with a devil—not a very good deal, but it wasn’t a very good devil. Now it’s too late for regrets. Your soul is forfeit unless you find a loophole or convince the devil to void the deal.

Benefit: Choose one of the following benefits: Your Renown increases by 2, your Wealth increases by 2, or your Stamina increases by 3.

Drawback: Your body bears a fiendish mark. Anyone who understands religion can tell that your soul belongs to Hell, giving you a bane on tests made to interact with them (unless they’re into that). Additionally, when you die, your soul goes to Hell and you can’t be restored to life.

IVORY TOWER

You studied in an academy or other educational institution. Your training was thorough and your reading list was wide-ranging, but when you left school you discovered that there were serious gaps in your education. Maybe some of those books were a little out of date.

Benefit: You learn three skills and one dead language.

Drawback: The Director chooses one of the skills you learned from this complication. You lose that skill and can’t ever learn it. When you make a test to which this skill would apply, instead of gaining a +2 bonus you suffer a bane.

LIGHTNING SOUL

You were caught in a storm and stuck by lightning—but you survived. Something saved you. Maybe it was a godsgiven miracle, a latent psionic gift, or the magic of a helpful elementalist, but you absorbed the lightning into your body. It’s always there, simmering under the surface.

Benefit: When you regain Stamina in combat, you gain a surge. Whenever you spend a surge, you can make the extra damage it deals lightning damage.

Drawback: When you are wet, you have damage weakness 5.

LIFEBONDED

In a sinister ritual, your soul has been bound to another’s. When they die, you die—making you the perfect bodyguard. Who is your life bonded to: a companion? A superior officer? An enemy?

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

Benefit: Choose another creature that doesn’t have the Lifebonded complication. When you die, your body disappears until that creature completes a respite or gains one Victory. You then appear next to the creature, fully healed.

Drawback: If the creature you’re bound to dies, you die as well, no matter what other traits or features you have.

LONER

You’ve always been a lone wolf. With no one else to lean on, you’ve picked up a million survival tricks. Which made it all the more surprising when you joined your current adventuring group, and found the family you never had.

Benefit: When you complete a respite, choose a skill you don’t possess. You gain the benefits of that skill until you next complete a respite.

Drawback: Now that you finally have people who care about you, you won’t let anyone take them away! When a creature reduces one of your allies to 0 Stamina, you are taunted by the creature until your ally’s Stamina is higher than 0, the end of the encounter, or another creature makes you taunted.

LOST IN TIME

In a long-ago age, a cataclysm overtook your city. You weren’t killed, but through some arcane accident you were suspended in time—until now. Alone, you must navigate the modern world with a head full of outdated memories—and a few ancient secrets.

Benefit: Choose a damage type from acid, cold, corruption, fire, holy, lightning, poison, psychic, or sonic. When you use a signature ability, you can use your chosen damage type instead of the ability’s normal damage.

Drawback: You automatically fail any test made to recall information from after you were suspended in time.

LOST YOUR HEAD

A bredbeddle stole your head! Normally, being beheaded by one of these giants is fatal, but due to your latent psionic ability you’re able to survive despite your decapitation.

Benefit: You gain the following ability.

SHARE HEAD

You don’t have a head but can psionically borrow another. Keywords: Psionic, Ranged Type: Maneuver Distance: Ranged 10 Target: One willing creature

You can see, hear, and smell as if you were in the creature’s space. Additionally, you can borrow their mouth to speak when you wish to do so. You speak in a different voice than theirs. This effect ends when you use Share Sense on a different target, when the creature moves more than 10 away from you, or when the creature is no longer willing to share their head with you.

Drawback: Having no head, you can’t see, hear, smell, or taste except by using the Share Head ability. Additionally, you can’t wear gear that requires a head, such as helmets or hats.

8

LUCKY

You’ve always had a lucky streak: when you leave things in the hands of fate, you tend to succeed more than you fail. But luck is fickle—when you don’t trust it, it deserts you.

Benefit: When you spend a hero token to turn a failure into a success or to avoid a consequence, roll a d10. On a result of 6 or more, you don’t expend the hero token.

Drawback: When you get a tier 1 result on a test and don’t expend a hero token to turn it into a success, you gain a bane on the next test you make.

MASTER CHEF

Before you were a hero, you were a chef—and when you retire, you have big plans for your next restaurant or inn. In the meantime, you’re on the lookout for rare ingredients that only a traveler can find. After all, it’s food that makes the world go round.

Benefit: You gain the Cooking skill. Additionally, when you complete a respite or wake up after a night’s sleep, you can spend 1 uninterrupted hour prepare an excellent meal for up to 10 creatures, provided you have ingredients and cooking tools. Each creature that eats the meal gains 1 bonus Recovery, which expires at the end of the day if not used.

Drawback: The first time each day that you are forced to eat ordinary or substandard food, you lose 2 Recoveries.

MEDDLING BUTLER

You’re not sure what you did to deserve it, but for some reason your family saddled you with an old and trustedbut irritating—family servant. They’re supremely competent, of course, but they sometimes seem to forget who’s in charge.

Benefit: You gain a retainer, in addition to followers you acquire through Renown or other means.

Drawback: Outside of combat, your retainer is under the Director’s control. The retainer sometimes acts without orders—always with your best interests at heart, but often in embarrassing or inconvenient ways.

MEDIUM

You can see ghosts and spirits that others just don’t sense. They’re constantly whispering unsettling secrets in your ear—when they’re not trying to kill you.

Benefit and Drawback: Incorporeal undead within 10 squares of you can communicate telepathically with you. Additionally, you can use the Contact Spirits ability.

CONTACT SPIRITS

Keywords: Magic Distance: Self

Type: Action Target: Self

Power Roll + Intuition or Presence:

• 11 or lower: You take corruption damage equal to 5 + your level.

• 12-16: A spirit speaks to you. You learn how it died, and you can ask it one question, which it can answer

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

truthfully or untruthfully. It knows anything it knew in life, and it is aware of the events that took place in this location since its death. You can’t use this ability again until you have earned 1 Victory.

Effect: If any sapient creatures have died nearby within 24 hours, you gain a double bane on the power roll if any of the creatures were hostile to you, or a double edge if they were friendly to you. You can’t use this ability again until have earned at least 1 Victory.

• 17+: As 12-16, but you can ask 3 questions.

MEDUSA BLOOD

Your mother and father never saw eye to eye—you know that because your father’s still alive. Your mother was a medusa. It made your childhood difficult, and now it’s making your adulthood complicated as well.

Benefit: You gain the following ability:

STONE EYES

These looks don’t kill—they petrify. Keywords: Attack, magic, ranged Distance: Ranged 10

Power Roll + Might or Presence:

Type: Action Target: 1 creature

• 11 or lower: 2 damage; M < [weak] slowed (save ends)

• 12-16: 4 damage; M < [average] slowed (save ends)

• 17+: 6 damage; M < [strong] slowed (save ends)

Effect: This ability has no effect on a creature that can’t see you or purposely avoids looking at your eyes. If a creature is reduced to 0 Stamina by this ability, they turn to inanimate stone.

Drawback: Out of combat, you use Stone Eyes on anyone who meets your eye, whether you intend to or not. Your companions know not to make eye contact, but strangers are likely to trigger the ability unless you cover your eyes.

MISUNDERSTOOD

Your appearance marks you as part of a group that’s universally feared. You might be a gentle soul, but you’re not often given a first chance, much less a second. It’s no wonder that you usually wear a hood.

Benefit and Drawback: When you reveal your appearance to creatures that don’t know you personally, you gain an edge on tests where the Brag or Intimidate skill could be applied and a bane on tests where the Flirt, Lead, or Persuade skills could be applied.

MUNDANE

You’re hopelessly nonmagical. When you try to use magical abilities, or when they’re used on you, they never work right. Even magical devices seem to fizzle in your presence.

Benefit: You have corruption, holy, and psychic damage immunity equal to your level.

Drawback: While you are carry more than three magic treasures, you have a bane on all power rolls.

9

OUTLAW

You might be a common bandit or an idealistic freedom fighter, but in either case, the local authorities don’t approve of your actions. You’ve managed to stay one step ahead of the law, but until your name is cleared you’ve got to keep a low profile.

Benefit: You gain 1 Renown.

Drawback: Law enforcement officials and bounty hunters who recognize you attempt to arrest you.

PIRATE

You have a piratical past (and maybe a piratical present and future as well). While you’re not well known ashore, other pirates have a way of recognizing their own.

Benefit: When interacting with pirates or pirate hunters, you treat your Renown as 2 higher than usual. Additionally, you hold a piece of a pirate map. Somewhere in the world, a handful of other pirates hold the other pieces of the map. With all the pieces, you’d know the location of a fabulous pirate treasure.

Drawback: The pirate treasure is said to be cursed or haunted. Furthermore, you’re not the only ones looking for it. The pirates holding the other pieces of the map would very much like to get their hands on your piece!

PREACHER

When you were young, you almost died in an accident or attack and had a vision of god or saint that showed you the way to save yourself and others you loved. That drove you into the church and gave you a strong belief in a particular religion or cause, and you just can’t wait to tell other people all about it.

Benefit: As a respite activity, you can try to convert members of a community to your cause. Make a Presence test. The Director determines the difficulty based on the community’s receptiveness to your ideas. On a success, you convert one NPC into a follower, in addition to followers you acquire through Renown or other means. The Director determines the type of follower. Once you have converted an NPC into a follower in this way, you can’t try again until you gain a level.

Drawback: If you fail in your conversion attempt, one of the followers you have (either through this feature or your Renown) leaves you, their faith in you shaken. If you have no followers, your Renown instead decreases by 1. If you need to reduce your Renown and it is already 0, you instead experience a fitful respite and don’t gain any of the benefits of it.

PRIMORDIAL SICKNESS

You once contracted a terrible illness for which no one could find a cure. You sought out a primordial swamp said to be either incredibly poisonous or miraculously salubrious. It turned out to be both, keeping your illness at bay while corrupting your body with its unnatural energy.

Benefit: You have poison immunity 5 and corruption immunity 5.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

Drawback: The number of Recoveries you have is reduced by 1.

PRISONER OF THE SYNLIRII

You were captured by the psionic beings known as voiceless talkers. You escaped them, but you can’t escape that feeling in the back of your mind—the feeling of being watched.

Benefit: You can telepathically communicate with creatures within 10 of you if they share a language with you and you know of each other. The receiver of your telepathic communications can choose to respond telepathically.

Drawback: Voiceless talkers within 1 mile know your location and can overhear and understand your telepathic conversations.

PROMISING APPRENTICE

You were apprenticed to a trade. Your mentor said you had a special gift, and you could have become a master of your craft—but before your training was complete, your mentor was killed.

Benefit: You gain a skill from the crafting skill group. Choose one of your skills from the crafting skill group. When you use this skill you gain an edge.

Drawback: Whoever killed your mentor cursed you. Whenever you make a test that you don’t apply one of your skills to, you have a bane on the test.

PSYCHIC ERUPTION

In times of stress, you get headaches. Psionic energy builds up in your mind until you feel like your head is going to explode. If you’re not careful, it actually does explode, radiating psychic waves that harm friends and enemies alike.

Benefit: You gain the following heroic ability:

PSYCHIC BLAST (COST: ALL YOUR HEROIC RESOURCES)

Psionic energy bursts from your body in an iridescent shimmer.

Keywords: Area, Psionic Distance: 3 burst

Type: Action Target: All creatures

Power Roll + Highest Characteristic:

• 11 or lower: 1 psychic damage for each heroic resources you spend, to a maximum of your level

• 12-16: 1 psychic damage for each heroic resource you spend, to a maximum of your level + your highest characteristic

• 17+: 1 psychic damage for each heroic resource you spend

Special: If you are a talent and you are strained, the ability deals an additional 5 psychic damage to you and all creatures in the area.

Drawback: When you gain the bleeding, frightened, or weakened condition, you must use Psychic Blast as a free triggered action.

10

PUNISHMENT CURSE

Through ignorance, fear, spite, or selfishness, you refused to help someone in need. To teach you a lesson, a deity offered you what seemed to be a blessing—extra power to help you heal yourself in times of need, but harsh consequences should your need become excessive. You took the deal, and now benefit from the blessing but also suffer from a curse.

Benefit: You have 1 additional Recovery.

Drawback: When you are out of Recoveries, you are dying, no matter what your current Stamina is.

RAISED BY BEASTS

You were orphaned or lost in the wild, and a friendly animal pack (perhaps apes, bears, or wolves) took you in. Returning to so-called civilization was a shock, but you’re determined to learn all you can about your own kind.

Benefit: You gain the Animal Handling skill. Additionally, choose an animal type, such as wolf. You can communicate with this animal as if you shared a language, and animals of this type are not initially hostile to you unless they’re supernaturally compelled to be. You gain an edge when you use Animal Handling to interact with this animal.

Drawback: You don’t have a culture, though you can still speak Caelian.

REFUGEE

A hostile army—perhaps the forces of Ajax, the Iron Saint—conquered your homeland. Your family escaped, but you can’t return home until your oppressors are defeated once and for all.

Benefit: When your family fled your homeland, they left their greatest treasure behind. Work with the Director to determine its nature. It might be a trinket or leveled item, several points of Wealth, a treasure’s project source, or the like. This treasure is now in the hands of the invaders, until you win it back and use it against them.

Drawback: The faction that invaded your homeland is hostile to you.

RIVAL

Whatever your accomplishments, you’ll forever measure yourself against a former companion who always seemed to be one step ahead of you.

Benefit: Choose one of your skills. This skill grants +3 bonus to tests instead of +2.

Drawback: You occasionally cross paths with your rival, who has similar statistics to yours (but gains a +4 instead of a +3 in the skill you chose).

ROGUE TALENT

You are the only survivor of a cataclysmic psionic eventan experiment gone wrong, a voiceless talker attack, or some naturally occurring phenomenon of a far off part of

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

the timescape. It left you with a psionic talent, but also made you vulnerable to telepathic attacks.

Benefit: You gain the following ability, which you can use as a ranged free strike.

TELEKINETIC GRASP

You reach out with your mind to move a creature or object. Keywords: Psionic, Ranged, Strike Type: Maneuver Distance: Ranged 10 Target: 1 creature or object

Power Roll + Might, Intuition, or Presence:

• 11 or lower: push or pull 1

• 12-16: push or pull 2

Drawback: You have psychic weakness 5.

RUNAWAY

• 17+: push or pull 3

To your embarrassment, no sinister omens attended your birth and your closet contains no skeletons. You’re just an ordinary person raised in a hardworking family. You’re expected to carry on the family business—but who can settle down to a boring job when adventure calls! That’s why you ran away.

Benefit: You gain a skill from the crafting skill group. Drawback: Your extended family is looking for you to take you home—and you’ve never been able to stand up to them. That’s why you ran away in the first place!

SEARCHING FOR A CURE

Your homeland has been corrupted by some terrible monster, and you’re the only one who escaped the plague. The rest of your family still exists, but in changed formsperhaps as vampires or zombies. People tell you the situation is hopeless, but you’re determined to find a cure.

Benefit: Choose a type of monster, such as medusa or vampire. You gain a +1 bonus on saving throws and to characteristic scores for the purpose of resisting potencies against this monster’s abilities.

Drawback: You have started to turn into one of these creatures yourself. If you don’t find a cure soon … you’ll fall victim to the disease or curse. Work with your Director to determine the timeline of your disease taking effect. It should be something that could happen during the campaign!

SECRET IDENTITY

You’re secretly very important—but it’s not safe for your true identity to be known. Perhaps you’re the witness to a crime or a royal on the run from a usurper. Until the appropriate villains are punished, you’ll maintain the guise of an ordinary adventurer.

Benefit: You gain a skill of your choice from the intrigue skill group. Additionally, you can resume your true identity, either temporarily or permanently. While in your true identity, your Renown and Wealth are treated as 2 higher, along with any other benefits you may gain from your identity.

11

Drawback: You have powerful and clever enemies. Until they’re defeated, if you resume your true identity, there is a cumulative 20% chance that they find you and confront you each day. This chance resets if you resume your secret identity for a full day. Even if you try to keep your identity hidden, their suspicions may be raised by a careless slip.

SELF TAUGHT

While your peers were learning their trades in fancy schools, you were practicing your abilities on the mean streets with nothing but your own instinct as a guide. What you lost in polish and tactical acumen you make up for in raw power.

Benefit and Drawback: At the start of your turn during combat, you can forgo gaining heroic resources until the start of your next turn. If you do, until the start of your next turn your strikes deal additional damage equal to your highest characteristic score.

SEWER FOLK

Impoverished or on the run, you spent formative years living in the sewers of a major city. There you learned lessons that have stood you well, although the miasma of the sewers did permanent damage to your health.

Benefit: Your movement gains either the Climb or Swim keyword (your choice). Additionally, while in a city you and your companions can move from place to place without being detected, and you never get lost while underground.

Drawback: You have poison weakness 5.

SHADOW BORN

You were born in the dusk land ruled by the Queen of Shadows, and its darkness has seeped into your bones.

Benefit: When you start your turn in concealment, you gain a surge.

Drawback: You have holy weakness 5.

SHARED SPIRIT

A supernatural spirit shares your body; each of you controls your body by turn. You and the spirit share the same short-term goals and work equally well with your companions, although you may have different personalities, mannerisms, and long-term goals.

Benefit and Drawback: At the start of each day, roll 1d6. On a 1-4, you control your body. On a 5-6, the spirit does. Alternatively, if you and the spirit are on good terms, you can choose each day who is in control. Choose three of your skills that you possess only while you are in control, and choose three new skills that you can use only while your spirit is in control.

SHATTERED LEGACY

You’re the heir to a powerful magical treasure that has been in your family for generations. The only problem: it’s broken. Some ancestor of yours broke it while saving the

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

world, or maybe they tripped and smashed it on a rock. It’s your job to fix it.

Benefit: You learn a language of your choice. You gain a leveled item of your choice.

Drawback: The leveled item you gain from this complication is broken and completely inoperative. Repairing the item requires using the Craft Treasure project, and the goal is half what it would normally be to create such an item. You have the project source you need to fix the item, but not the item prerequisite.

SHIPWRECKED

You are the sole survivor of a shipwreck that left you stranded on a remote and inhospitable island for years. Your struggle to survive there granted you insight into the natural world but distanced you from who you once were.

Benefit: You gain two skills from the exploration skill group.

Drawback: You have forgotten one language you know.

SIBLING’S SHIELD

You were tasked with delivering a ceremonial shield to your older sibling, a celebrated warrior, for their years of service. When you arrived at their homestead, you found them dead on their doorstep with their sword lodged in their back. If you were going to find out who did this to them and why, you needed to step into their shoes. It will take a while to match up to your sibling’s legacy, though.

Benefit: You cannot be flanked as long as you wear your sibling’s shield on your back.

Drawback: Visions of your dead sibling haunt you at night. Whenever you take a respite, make an Intuition test without applying a skill. On a 17 or lower or lower, you gain 1 fewer Recoveries than your normally would when the respite ends.

SILENT SENTINEL

You were trained by a group of spies who psionically infused silence into your every step and enhanced your ability to hear distant whispers. It wasn’t until you got caught by an elementalist who blasted you with thunder that you learned the enhanced hearing had some nasty side effects.

Benefit: You gain the Eavesdrop and Sneak skills and one skill from the lore skill group of your choice. Additionally, you can silently communicate with any creature, provided you share a language and can see each other.

Drawback: You have sonic weakness 5. Additionally, when you take sonic damage, you are dazed until the end of your next turn.

SLIGHT CASE OF LYCANTHROPY

Maybe you were bitten as a child, or maybe it’s a family curse. Either way, you have a malady that is best not discussed in public, lest the torches and pitchforks make their appearance.

12

Benefit: When you wind or kill a non-minion creature, you gain a surge.

Drawback: If you have five or more surges at the start of your turn, or you have at least one surge at the start of your turn while in moonlight, you lose all your surges and become a woflish hybrid until the end of your turn. While in the form, you either make a melee free strike at the nearest creature or shift up to your speed towards the nearest creature and make a melee free strike against them if you can. If allies and enemies are equally close, you attack an ally.

Special: Stormwight furies can’t take this complication.

SECRET TWIN

You have an identical twin—either a sibling or someone who looks so much like you that none would ever know the difference. They had a life that you coveted, or they had obligations that couldn’t go unfulfilled. So when they went missing, you stepped in and started living their life. Most folks are none the wiser.

Benefit: You claimed something that belonged to your twin as your own—a signature treasure that is now all yours. You gain a 1st echelon trinket of your choice. This treasure has their name or sigil written, sewn, or emblazoned on it somewhere.

Drawback: Your twin disappeared for a reasonsomeone wanted them dead. Whenever you finish a respite, roll a d10. On a result of 1 or 2, the Director can decide that your past catches up with you at any point in the future in the form of an assassin or someone who knows your real identity and threatens to reveal it as part of a blackmail scheme.

STOLEN FACE

An evil fairy cursed you, leaving you with a blank expanse instead of a face. Although you’re able to imitate other peoples’ features, you’d like to have your own back.

Benefit: You can spend 5 uninterrupted minutes to rearrange your face into that of another creature of your ancestry who you’ve seen before. You gain a double edge on tests made to impersonate this creature or to disguise your identity. You are unable to change your hair or other non-facial features.

Drawback: When you take damage, your face is blank, with no eyes, nose, mouth, or ears. Your face doesn’t return until you spend 5 uninterrupted minutes rearranging it.

STONE CURSED

As a child, you met a creature that turns people to stone, such as a medusa. You escaped half-petrified, but others, not so lucky, are statues now, waiting for a cure.

Benefit: Your stability increases by 1. Additionally, while unmoving you appear to be an ordinary statue. Drawback: You have sonic weakness 5. Additionally, while you are winded you are dazed.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

STRANGE INHERITANCE

Your siblings each inherited money or land, but you got a strange, seemingly useless trinket, along with the advice that maybe you weren’t cut out for an ordinary, peaceful life.

Benefit: You gain a somewhat inoperative 2nd echelon trinket of the Director’s choice. It only works while the total of your level plus your Victories is 5 or higher. You don’t learn what the item’s powers are until the first time it becomes operative.

Drawback: With no other inheritance, you accumulated debts. The first time your Wealth exceeds 1, you lose 1 Wealth.

STRIPPED OF RANK

You were trained as an officer, but you no longer serve. Did you flee a battle? Were you dishonorably discharged? Did you defect from an evil army?

Benefit: You gain the following ability. ISSUE ORDER “Move or die, folks.”

Keywords: Ranged Distance: Range 10

Type: Action Target: One ally Effect: The target can use its triggered action to take an action, a move action, or a maneuver.

Special: If you have the Strike Now tactician ability, the target can use a free triggered action instead of a triggered action to use this ability.

Drawback: You need 4 Renown, instead of 3, to attract a follower and can gain additional followers for every 4 Renown, instead of 3, you gain after that.

THRILL SEEKER

You live for danger. In battle and peril, you can transcend your usual limits—and once you’ve tasted that excitement, you want more.

Benefit: When the party reaches two, four, and six victories, you gain a hero token.

Drawback: At the start of the session, the party doesn’t gain a hero token for your character.

VAMPIRE SIRE

A vampire has bitten you. You’re not undead—not yet anyway—but you have a connection with your vampire sire, and you feel urges you fight to control.

Benefit: When you make a melee free strike against an adjacent creature, you can make it a bite. If you do so, you gain temporary Stamina equal to the damage you dealt. This temporary Stamina lasts until the end of your next respite if it doesn’t disappear due to damage.

Drawback: While you have temporary Stamina from this complication, your vampire sire can sense your location,

13

you grow visible fangs, and you have a bane on Presence tests made to interact with humanoids who aren’t undead.

VOW OF HONESTY

You were brought up to a strict standard of behavior. You cannot tell a lie.

Benefit: As long as you don’t lie, you gain the benefit of the Censor’s A Sense for Truth Order feature. If you also gain the A Sense for Truth feature in another way, you also gain a double edge on tests made to persuade a creature of a specific fact.

Drawback: When you lie, your honor is stained, and you gain a bane on any test you make that uses a skill from the interpersonal skill group and lose this complication’s benefit. You can lose the bane and regain this complication’s benefit only by doing penance, such as gaining the forgiveness of the creature you lied to.

VOW OF DUTY

You have sworn an oath to an organization. It is your rock, and as long as your faith in it remains unshaken, you are immovable.

Benefit: Your stability increases by 1.

Drawback: If you are forced to disobey your organization’s orders, your stability is reduced to 0 until your doubts are resolved or you find a new organization.

WAKING DREAMS

You broke a magic amulet that immersed your mind in weird magic. This magic has given you the power of premonition, but you struggle to control this new gift.

Whenever you take a respite, make a Reason power roll to determine whether you gain this complication’s benefit or drawback.

Benefit: On a 12 to 16, you experience a vision of an event currently happening in your world. The vision lasts for just a few seconds, but the information you glean is helpful to you. On a 17 or higher, you receive a full minute or more of the scene.

Drawback: On an 11 or lower, you receive a painful vision that is fractal and inscrutable. When the respite ends, you immediately lose 1 Recovery.

WAR DOG COLLAR

You wear a loyalty collar from one Ajax’s War Dogs. You’ve managed to rig the collar so it explodes outward while keeping you safe.

Benefit: While you wear your loyalty collar, other war dogs can’t use Posthumous Promotion on you. You gain the following ability.

POSTHUMOUS RETIREMENT

You make your modified collar explode. Keywords Magic Distance 1 burst

Type Maneuver Target All enemies

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

Effect Your loyalty collar detonates, dealing fire damage equal to 5 plus your level to each target. Once you have used this ability, you can’t use it again until you spend 1 minute out of combat resetting the collar.

Drawback: When you use your Posthumous Retirement ability, the Director can spend 3 Malice to make your collar malfunction and deal damage to you.

WAR OF ASSASSINS

Being in the wrong place at the wrong time saw you caught in the middle of a conflict between two warring thieves guilds. Whether by choice or by accident, you wound up helping one faction at the expense of the other.

Benefit: Having gained the favor of the faction who you helped, you can call on its members three times for favors. If a favor is reasonable and within the faction’s power to grant, they’ll do it, no questions asked.

Drawback: The faction you wronged hates you, and its members would love to see you pay for your transgression.

WARD

Your childhood sweetheart was royalty, and the two of you stayed close throughout the years. When your former sweetheart died, you swore an oath to dedicate your life to become a tutor for their child, advising them in the ways of being a benevolent monarch.

Benefit: You know how to talk to monarchs, aristocrats, and other wealthy leaders. When you engage with any such NPC during a negotiation, their patience increases by 1 (to a maximum of 5).

Drawback: Your royal ward can be a burden. When you start a respite, roll a d10. On a roll of 1, your ward contacts you and requires your help during the respite, requiring you to spend your time helping them instead of taking a respite activity.

WATERBORN

You nearly lost your life at sea, but then you heard the voice. Someone … something in the sea called out to youtelling you to swim. Suddenly the ocean wasn’t your doom. It was your parent, birthing you into something new. You emerge with a small piece of the ocean’s power. For what purpose—you can’t be sure.

Benefit: Your movement gains the Swim tag, and you can breathe underwater. Additionally, you can summon water to do your bidding. You gain the following ability.

ROGUE WAVE

You summon a wave of water to batter your foe. Keywords: Attack, Magic, Ranged Type: Action Distance: Ranged 10 Target: 1 creature or object

Power Roll + your highest characteristic:

• 11 or lower: 2 damage; push or pull 1

• 12-16: 5 damage; push or pull 2

Effect: You can forgo dealing damage with this ability.

• 17+: 7 damage; push or pull 3

Drawback: You have lightning weakness 5. Additionally, the sea, or one of its representatives, can assign you a 14

quest. If you don’t do the sea’s bidding, it may temporarily deny you this complication’s benefits—including water breathing—at an inconvenient time.

WODEWALKER

You were dying in the wode—starving and wounded, you collapsed. When you woke, you found a group of green elementalists had saved your life by infusing the regenerative bark of a tree to your body.

Benefit: Your recovery value increases by an amount equal to your highest characteristic score. Drawback: You have fire weakness 5.

WRONGLY IMPRISONED

You spent many years imprisoned for a crime you didn’t commit. During your long hours of solitary confinement, you honed your skills and you recited the names of those who framed you. Someday you will have your revenge.

Benefit: You learn two skills of your choice, neither of which are from the interpersonal skill group. Drawback: Your health suffered in prison. While you are winded, you develop a hacking cough, which makes it impossible for you to hide or sneak.

WRATHFUL SPIRIT

You’re quick to anger, and some even say you’re possessed by a literal spirit of wrath. You never let an insult go without slinging one right back. In combat, things are similar: no matter the tactical circumstances, when someone injures you, you feel compelled to answer blood with blood.

Benefit: While you are taunted by a creature, you gain an edge on attacks against that creature. If you have the Rage heroic resource, you can spend 1 rage to make it a double edge.

Drawback: In conversation or negotiation, when a creature insults you, you must either spend a Recovery or reply with an insult. Furthermore, in combat, whenever a creature hits you with an strike while you are not taunted, you are taunted (EoT) by that creature.

Draw Steel © 2024 MCDM Productions, LLC

15

